For this video I've brought in this model of the kitchen counter.
You can download the project files for this course by clicking on the project file button here on the
main page of this course and you can open this up and follow along.
The first thing I'd like to do is take a look at what Blendr gives us in terms of lighting options and
if we go over here to the Create tab where we can see that right down here under lamp.
We've got Pointe sun spot Hemmy and area lights.
And I'd like to just go through what each of these are and how each of these look in the scene.
If I come over here to the render panel and click on the render button it says no camera found in scene.
So that's another reason why Blendr puts that camera that cube in that point light in the scene because
if you were to open it up and hit render you would get an error.
So what we need to do is add a camera to the scene.
You can tell that as I began modeling this particular scene I deleted those initial objects the camera
cube and point light out of the scene so I could work.
But since I did that I need to add it back.
So let's come over here to the Create tab and way down here at the bottom.
We have cameras so let's click on that and there is our camera right there.
So let me kind of spin around here and move it back so it kind of points at the scene here.
And we go and now let's hit the render button ok we can kind of see what's going on in there although
it's pretty dim and grainy.
You may be wondering now why can we see anything since there aren't any lights in the scene at all.
Well that's because of the world settings over here so let me click on the world and if you go to the
surface area you can see this color at Horizon.
If I take this and take it all the way down to black Let's take that all the way all the way down and
then come back to the render panel and hit render.
Now we have nothing.
So what this world panel is doing for us is giving us a kind of ambient background light coming from
the horizon of the scene.
So if we don't want any of that we should come in here to the world and turn that all the way down to
black.
So I'm going to go ahead and do that just so we can see exactly what each of the lights are doing in
our scene without any interference from ambient light.
All right.
So let's come back over here to our main view all hit the escape key.
And one thing I'd like to do is frame up my shot a little better now I can actually go and look through
this camera.
If I come down here to view and cameras I can choose to look through the active camera by clicking here
or hitting zero on the numpad click that.
And there's my view.
The problem is is how do I move the camera.
I can move the whole view and I can tumble around and it comes out of the camera.
How do I move my camera so that I can see and compose my shot within the frame.
Well you really kind of need another viewport or another window here on the interface so you can see
through the camera.
So what I'm going to do for the time being just to give us some extra screen room without adding no
new window in here.
I'm going to change the outliner view to the camera view since I'm pretty much done with my modeling.
I don't really need this currently.
So I'm going to come up here and change it from the outliner to a 3-D view and there it is going to
tumble around here.
So now with my cursor hovering over that screen I'm going to press the zero key on the numpad and that
will change.
So we're looking through the camera.
Now let me zoom in just a little bit so we can see that.
And now I can begin moving the camera around here to frame up my shot.
Now I think I want it a little bit more like this.
And another thing you can do to make it a little easier to move the camera around it to change from
global to local transformations.
And that's right down here.
So we can change this from global to local and now you can see that the transform gizmos are inline
with the object so we can move that in now and lift it up.
We can rotate it I'll change to the rotate manipulator and rotate it up a bit.
Now move it down some like this.
We can look at it like that maybe I'll rotate it back like this at something like that so I get a better
view of my scene.
There we go that's not too bad.
So now that we have that let's go ahead and add a light now as I was moving the camera around I accidentally
clicked and move the cursor so the cursor is over here instead of in the center of the grid wherever
the cursor is is where a new object is going to come into the scene.
So I'm going to move this cursor into the center of the grid with shift s and I'll say cursor to center
and then I'll create a point light.
And then we go.
Now I'm going to move it up and into the scene say right about.
Let's move it.
So it's the right kind of over here kind of above the camera maybe to the right of the camera here.
Now let's hit that render button and see how we're doing.
All right.
We can see things now.
That's good and we can see our shadows here.
We're getting a little grain in the image and that's OK for now we'll talk about increasing the samples
here in a minute but ok.
We can kind of see what that point light is doing now.
It's a little difficult sometimes or a little inconvenient to always come over here and hit the render
button.
Time and time again we have down here under this little menu the viewport shading we have a rendered
viewport shading mode.
And what this is is just an approximation of what you're going to see in the final render.
So let me click on that.
And now you can kind of get a sense of what the final render is going to look like from your normal
viewport view here.
Now I want to caution you that you should not use this and assume that this is the final way it's going
to look.
You should always do a final render with the render button over here at full resolution to make sure
that what you think you're getting is actually what you're getting.
Now I can come over here to this screen and go ahead and change this to the rendered viewport shading.
And now I can come and change this back to solid so now as I work this view here is going to update
automatically.
So as I move the light around you can see the shadows move.
You can see the difference in the lighting in real time.
And this is going to be really handy as we begin to set up materials and the lighting of the scene.
All right so I'm going to move this over just a little bit so that's kind of what we get with a point
light or kind of open this up a little bit more and make it a little bit bigger.
Let's do that if we wanted to make this light a little brighter in the scene we could come over to this
panel right here with the point light selected I have a new panel here and I can click that and here's
the point light and I can increase the intensity or the strength of the illumination here.
So if I click and drag I can increase the amount of light or I can actually just plug in a number I'll
type in 300 and there we go.
So now we have a nice bright scene with our point light.
Let's take a look at another kind of light with this in here.
I could delete it and create a sun light or spotlight or any of these others but I can also come over
here and you can see we've got these different buttons for sunspot himi and area.
And I can just click on this and change it to sunlight.
And now we've got a very bright sunlight.
Let me turn it down back to 100 here and we go we've got a very bright sunlight shining down into our
scene.
Sunlight is basically an infinitely wide light object that is casting parallel rays down into the scene.
It's like the sun in that the sun is just so big and so far away that the rays of light coming from
it are virtually parallel when they hit the Earth.
So that's what this is kind of imitating.
So I could take this and I'll just move it up out here like this just so we can kind of see it.
And the only thing that you can really adjust or alter with a sunlight is its rotation.
So let me take this down.
Let me take this down to say 30 so it isn't quite so bright.
And if I hit R I can rotate it into the scene like this.
And now it's shining directly into the scene let me take a strength down to one let me try that.
There we go.
So now you can see that it's just shining directly into the scene where we move this.
You can see I can hit G and move it all around the scene and it doesn't do anything because it's just
an infinitely wide object.
And the only transfer we can adjust in the scene is the rotation.
So it really doesn't matter where you put it so much as how you rotate it.
So let me change from local to global and change to rotation.
And if I move this around you can see now I'm pointing at this way and I can turn it like this and see
the shadows change as I rotated around.
Right.
And we go but where I put it doesn't matter at all.
All right well I'm going to put it back in the scene because I want to switch to a new light here.
Move back over here and with that there I will switch to a spotlight now with a spotlight.
I'm going to have to increase the intensity or the strength up quite a bit.
Let me take this up to say 500 and I'll bring it down into the scene.
Get it a little bit closer like this.
OK so for this particular light it matters where you put it.
So it's position and the rotation will affect how it looks in the scene.
We have a couple of extra settings here for the spot shape.
If I click and drag the size I can extend or increase the size of the cone or narrow it down very small
so it's just pointing at one particular object like say just the bowl of fruit there.
And in addition we have the blim that changes how the edge of the cone fades out or how sharp it is.
So if I grab that blend and pull it up a bit you can see that that dissolve or fade is a lot softer
or if I take it all the way back to zero it gives us a pretty hard edge on that spot.
Now the Hami light.
Let's take a look at that.
If we switch to the Hami this is an odd kind of a light.
It is as if there is a huge half sphere over the scene shining light into this scene from every point
on that sphere.
So let me take this down to maybe one again and let's see where we go for my taste.
The Hami light is not something that looks realistic.
It's a light that I mainly use say when I'm texture painting in Blendr and I need to see the colors
or the textures that I'm painting on the object in the viewport.
If I'm looking for realistic lighting the Hemmy light doesn't really do it for me.
So just a warning about that.
And lastly the area light is one of my favorites.
Let's go to that and once again I'll turn up the strength.
I mean turn up to say 400.
Now the area light I like because it allows you to adjust the quality of the shadows in the seams so
if you notice here these shadows are pretty sharp but if I increase the size of the area light I can
just click in the size field and increase it you can see here's the actual shape of the light as I increase
the light.
These shadows get softer and softer.
And so this allows you to really tweak how these shadows look in your seam because if it's a scene where
sunlight is streaming into a room the direct shadows from the sunlight are going to be pretty sharp.
But the other shadows in the room that are being affected or being cast by more ambient soft light the
edges will be a lot softer.
So you can really detail the shadows in your scene based on the particular kinds of light.
So I personally like the area of light quite a bit.
All right.
So now that we've taken a look at the different kinds of lights in the next video let's work on setting
up a basic lighting scheme for our scene here.